---
layout: page
title:  A Detailed Tutorial of NodeJS Single-threaded Architecture
permalink: /wiki/nodejs/
---

*by:* Mingyu Ma, Siqi Wang


A short description of your post goes here.

---

# Setup Environment
To set up a node.js environment, you can either download the installer from the node.js website, https://nodejs.org/en/. It provides long term support version and the latest version for Windows, MacOS, and Linux.
Another way to do is to install it via package manager. All information can be found on the same website https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/.

# Intro of Node.js

Node.js is a asynchronous event-driven JavaScript runtime. It is designed to build scalable network applications.
Node.js is designated to build a non-blocking environment, it is in contrasts to other concurrency model which employs OS threads more often. Node.js is build entirely around this concept of event loop, which is a asynchronous loop used to handle all incoming requests.
Node does not need any function calls to start its event loop, it simply enters the event loop after it starts executing the input file. Therefore the event loop is kept hidden from the user, and sometimes it is difficult to detect how event loop performs under the hood.

## How Node.js execute Javascript Program?

Node.js is built using the V8 JavaScript engine. V8 is a engine built by Google Chrome development group, the purpose of it is to directly run JavaScript files as users using the web browser.
V8 is a JIT(Just-In-Time) compiler, which means it compiles the program at the run time. It directly transfer the JavaScript code into machine code, which then be executed by the machine. JIT compiler is expected to be faster than traditional compiler, which users have to compile the code first and then runs the executable file generated by the compiler.
As V8 is built using C++, large portion of Node.js is also built on C++. Even though it does not affect how a JavaScript program is executed by Node.js, but some of the feature is made available because of C++. We will see an example of that later.

# How Node.js handle requests?

## single-thread

### Event loop

## async

Example crypto

## thread pool

Example http

# Summary
